---
category: [english]
title: English topics
excerpt:'collect some english topics here.'
---

# <center>English Topics</center>
***

## Topic one: <font color=#900>Introduce your home</font>

### Part one: introducing where you live
> I live in a two-dedroom apartment. The bedrooms are quite small, but there's a big living room with a dining area, a modern kitchen, and also a small balcony where we can sit outside in the summer.
```
  - Terraced house
  - Semi-detached house
  - Detached house
  - High-rise(us) = tower block(en)
  - Converted apartment = when a house is divided into apartments
  - Studio apartment = a one-room apartment, with the bedroom and living room together
  - Duplex apartment = an apartment with more than one floor
  - Balcony = terrace

```

### Part two: describing the inside of your home

```
  - Kitchen
  - living room
  - garden
```
### Part three: saying what you like or dislike about your home
##### Positive words for your home:
	- Spacious: large, with a lots of room
	- Cosy: comfortable in warm, welcoming way
	- Light: describes a home which gets lots of natural light
	- Warm/cool: comfortable in winter and summer
	- Convenient+for: close to other places you need to go regularly
	
 ##### negative words for your home:
	- Cramped: small, with not enough room
	- Dart: doesn't get much natural light
	- Drafty: lets in cold air in the winter
	- Stuffy: uncomfortable and airless in the summer
	- Noisy

### Part five: Talking about your neighbourhood = the area near your home
```
Suburb, Outskirts: 郊区
```
```
  My home is ..
	  ...in the city center
	  ...In the suburbs
	  ...Outside the city
	  ...On the outskirts of the city
	  ...In a village
    ...In the middle of nowhere
  
```

	> I live in a very lively area just south of the city centre. Thee are lots of cafes, shops, and places to go.
  
  > I live in a quiet area in the suburbs, in the north of the city. It is a nice area, and it's quite but it's a bit boring. There isn't really anything to go.

### Part six: conclusion
> I live in a two-storey terraced house. It has two bedrooms, a living room, a small kitchen and a garden. It's cosy and convenient for getting to work, but it's a bit cramped, especially when we have guests. I live with my wife and daughter. Our house is near the city center, in a quiet neighbourhood. There isn't much tod do, but there are some small shops and a park where we go if the weather's nice.

> I live by myself in a studio apartment. It just has one main room, with a tiny kitchen. It's very warm in winter, but it can get a bit stuffy in summer. I live in the city center, very close to everything. it's very lively, with lots of bars and restaurants. It's a good place for young people to live, but not many families choose to live herer.
